##What we thought – 

The key idea behind this project was to make easy money investigate Earnings Releases and try to find some insights from textual data that surround these Releases. When companies publish their finances, markets react according to the results of their investments’ accounts. While it would be great to be able to buy or sell in markets right after getting your hands on these published reports, earnings are usually released after market hours, disallowing investors to make a profit from them. Consequently, we wanted to explore whether we could identify any leading indicators of how a company’s report card would turn out.
There is a plethora of information available in the public knowledge sphere that supposedly makes markets efficient and could possibly be very good indicators of what investors should be expecting from earnings calls. Given this, markets already have an established expectation of companies’ accounting numbers that are readily available on several sources such as Yahoo! Finance (different outlets have their own methods of calculating this). Further, these expectations are already priced into the market long before the numbers are published. Therefore, the only opportunity of profiting out of this situation is to be able to predict surprises in these earnings.
While we could dig through the aforementioned information sources such as news articles, interviews of top management, investor reports etc., we chose to take a different (and hopefully shorter) route. Instead of crunching through publicly available data ourselves, we let people do that and attempted to find out what people have been thinking about. We believe that humans would be able to capture and process all possible information, build an opinion of their own and then take to social media to write about it. We hoped that the aggregate sentiment of the masses would accurately reflect all available information. The below chart explains this idea.
 
We chose to look at 3 popular social media sources – Twitter, StockTwits and Reddit. We chose Twitter because it is where “everybody is”, StockTwits because it is where “investors are” and Reddit because it is where users have a “superiority complex” about their knowledge and intellect. We felt that these three platforms would give us a complete picture of what investors believe about the performance of these companies and could possibly be the goldmine for predicting earnings surprises. What did we find? Check out our next blog to find out!

